---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq/pollution-control
---  
<style>

input {
	display: none;
}
label {
	display: block;
	padding: 8px 22px;
	margin: 0 0 5px 0;
	cursor: pointor;
	background: #F0F4F6;
	border-radius: 3px;
	color: #484848;
	transition: ease .5s;
	font-size: 1.5em;
}

label:hover {
	background: #4a96b0;
	color: #FFF;
}

.accordion-content {
	/* background: #E2E5F6; */
	padding: 10px 0px 30px 30px;
	/* border: 1px solid #484848; */
	margin: 0 0 1px 0;
	border-radius: 3px;
}

input + label + .accordion-content {
	display: none;
}

input:checked + label + .accordion-content {
	display: none;
}

input:checked + label + .accordion-content {
	display: block;
}

</style>
<!-- End of accordion -->

<div class="container">

<a name="pollution-control"></a>
<h1><b>Pollution Control</b></h1>

<h2 id="air-pollution-control">Air Pollution Control</h2>
<div>
  	<input type="checkbox" id="title2"  /><label for="title2">How does the Ministry control air pollution from vehicle emissions in Singapore?</label>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Vehicular (or motor) emission is one of the major sources of air pollution in Singapore. As part of our Energy Reset goals under the Singapore Green Plan 2030, Singapore is transitioning towards cleaner energy vehicles and ceasing diesel car and taxi registrations from 2025.<br>
    <br>
    To control the emissions generated by motor vehicles and safeguard public health, the National Environment Agency (NEA) sets specific exhaust emission and fuel quality standards for all vehicles, and regulates the type and quality of fuel that is being used in Singapore:<br>
    (I) All new and used petrol or diesel vehicles imported for registration in Singapore must comply with the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/EPMA1999-RG6?DocDate=20120629&amp;ProvIds=Sc1-#Sc1-" target="_blank">Euro VI emission standards</a>.<br>
    (II) All new and used motorcycles imported into Singapore for registration must comply with the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/EPMA1999-RG6?DocDate=20120629&amp;ProvIds=Sc3-#Sc3-" target="_blank">Euro IV emission standards</a>. Compared to the Euro III emission standard, the tighter Euro IV emission standard will help to reduce emissions of hydrocarbons (HC) and nitrogen oxides (NOx), which are precursors to ozone.<br>
    (III) All in-use vehicles have to comply with the in-use vehicle emission standards prescribed in the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/EPMA1999-RG6/#Sc5-" target="_blank">regulations</a>.<br>
    (IV) Every motor vehicle being driven in Singapore, when using diesel or petrol, must only use Euro V diesel or petrol that conforms with the standards prescribed in the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/EPMA1999-RG6/#Sc8-" target="_blank">regulations</a>.<br>
    (V) NEA also introduced the <a href="https://onemotoring.lta.gov.sg/content/onemotoring/home/buying/upfront-vehicle-costs/emissions-charges.html" target="_blank">Vehicular Emissions Scheme (VES)</a> to replace the Carbon Emission-Based Vehicle Scheme (CEVS) for all new cars, taxis and newly imported used cars with effect from 1 January 2018. The VES covers five pollutants – carbon dioxide (CO2), hydrocarbons (HC), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM). To further promote the adoption of cleaner vehicles and to discourage the purchases of more pollutive models, the VES for new cars, taxis and imported used cars have been enhanced with increased rebates and surcharges from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2022.<br>
    (VI) NEA further enhanced the <a href="https://onemotoring.lta.gov.sg/content/onemotoring/home/buying/vehicle-types-and-registrations/commercial-vehicle/early-turnover.html" target="_blank">Early Turnover Scheme (ETS)</a> to cover Euro IV Category C diesel vehicles from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2023, to incentivise owners of diesel commercial vehicles to replace them with new, cleaner options. NEA and LTA have also introduced the <a href="https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltagov/en/newsroom/2020/3/news-releases/Promoting_the_adoption_of_cleaner_commercial_vehicles.html" target="_blank">Commercial Vehicle Emissions Scheme (CVES)</a> for all new and used imported Light Goods Vehicles (LGVs), Goods-cum-Passenger Vehicles (GPVs), and small buses, all with maximum laden weight (MLW) not exceeding 3,500kg, from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2023.<br>
    (VII) The import of used vehicles into Singapore must also comply with the prevailing emission standards at the time of registration in Singapore.Visit <a href="https://www.nea.gov.sg/our-services/pollution-control/air-pollution/air-pollution-regulations" target="_blank">NEA&#39;s website</a> for more information on air pollution regulations.<br>
    <br>
    If you spot smoky vehicles or idling engines, you may report them to NEA, providing details such as the vehicle registration number, location, date and time of the incident via NEA&#39;s <a href="https://www.nea.gov.sg/corporate-functions/feedback" target="_blank">online feedback form</a>.</p>
	</div>
  	<input type="checkbox" id="title3"  /><label for="title3">How does the Ministry control air pollution from industries in Singapore?</label>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>The National Environment Agency (NEA) evaluates the hazard and pollution impact of industries to ensure that they do not contribute to unmanageable pollution, health and safety hazards. NEA checks the designs of industrial plants and pollution control equipment at the building plan stage for compliance with pollution control requirements. An industry is allowed to be set up only if it is sited in an appropriate industrial estate, and can comply with the pollution control requirements.<br>
			<br>
			NEA&#39;s Source Emission Test Scheme requires industries to conduct source emission tests on their own, or engage <a href="https://www.nea.gov.sg/our-services/pollution-control/air-pollution/air-quality/accredited-testing-bodies-for-source-emission-tests" target="_blank">accredited laboratories</a> under the <a href="https://www.sac-accreditation.gov.sg/services/accreditation-services/laboratories" target="_blank">Singapore Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (SAC-SINGLAS)</a> to monitor their air emissions regularly, and take measures to ensure their compliance with the prescribed air emission standards.<br>
			<br>
			NEA also conducts regular inspections on industries, fuel analyses and smoke observations of chimneys, to ensure that pollution control equipment is maintained and operated properly.
</p>
	</div>
    	<input type="checkbox" id="title4"  /><label for="title4">How does the Ministry mitigate the burning of incense and joss paper in public places?</label>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Currently, there are no regulations against the burning of incense and joss paper in public places. Being a multi-cultural society, the Government encourages members of public, including temples and devotees, to practise graciousness and consideration for the environment and neighbouring premises, when carrying out religious practices in public places.<br>
			<br>
			Devotees are advised to clean up the place after they have made their offerings. When burning joss paper, candles and other offerings, they should make use of the proper pits and containers provided at the designated points, such as those provided by the Town Councils.<br>
			<br>
			The National Environment Agency (NEA) works closely with religious associations and the town councils on reminding devotees to avoid burning joss papers on the ground and grass patches, and that it is also not necessary to throw joss paper in the air but to burn them instead.<br>
			<br>
			If you have an enquiry, you may contact NEA via this <a href="https://www.nea.gov.sg/corporate-functions/feedback" target="_blank">online feedback form</a>.</p>
	</div>
</div>

<p><i>Information accurate as of 31 December 2021.</i></p>
	
</div>
</div>
