---  
title: Oral Reply to Parliamentary Questions on Urban Heat by Ms Grace Fu, Minister for Sustainability and the Environment, and Mr Tan Kiat How, Senior Minister for State for National Development   
permalink: /resource-room/category/2022-08-02-oral-reply-to-pq-on-urban-heat
image:  
file_url:  
description:  
---  

#### Oral Reply by Ms Grace Fu, Minister for Sustainability and the Environment, and Mr Tan Kiat How, Senior Minister for State for National Development, to Parliamentary Questions on Urban Heat

**Prof Koh Lian Pin:** To ask the Minister for National Development whether an update can be provided on the progress and impact of the initiative to plant more trees in our industrial estates to help cool these industrial estates and create a more conducive work environment.

**Prof Koh Lian Pin:** To ask the Minister for National Development whether the Ministry has conducted studies to assess what species of trees and other vegetation may provide the most optimal shading and cooling benefits for mitigating rising temperatures and the urban heat island effect, as part of the One Million Trees movement.

**Prof Koh Lian Pin:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) whether guidelines on managing heat stress at workplaces are regularly updated to incorporate the latest scientific evidence; and (b) whether these guidelines will consider any preliminary findings of the third national climate change study.

**Ms He Ting Ru:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment in view of the changing climate and increasing frequency of extreme weather events, in particular extreme heat (a) what targeted measures are being taken to mitigate the impact of these events on heat vulnerable groups such as the elderly or lower income groups who are more at risk of adverse effects due to physiological or social obstacles to cooling solutions.

**Ms He Ting Ru:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) whether studies are being conducted or will be conducted to better understand the distribution of heat and energy inequality in our communities; and (b) what are the long-term plans to build heat resilient communities.

**Dr Tan Wu Meng:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) whether Singapore&#39;s island-wide temperature and urban heat island projections require revision in light of the ongoing climate crisis and recent heat waves reported around the world; (b) what projections exist for how future temperature trends will affect (i) indoor temperatures (ii) building ventilation requirements and (iii) usage of air-conditioning.

**Dr Tan Wu Meng:** To ask the Minister for National Development (a) what studies have been conducted on the ambient interior temperature of HDB flats across different times of the day and weather conditions; (b) weather these temperatures are expected to increase given climate change trends and, if so by how much; and (c) whether such trends are considered when setting out design specifications for newer HDB projects.

**Answer by Minister Grace Fu:**

1 I thank Members Prof Koh Lian Pin, Ms He Ting Ru, Dr Tan Wu Meng and Mr Christopher de Souza for their questions on how Singapore is preparing for rising temperatures. I will address them together with Senior Minister of State (SMS) Tan Kiat How from the Ministry of National Development in two parts. First, I will set out the broad context of how climate change and rising temperatures will affect Singapore and outline the Government&#39;s approach to strengthening Singapore&#39;s heat resilience. SMS Tan will then elaborate on specific policies and measures to cool our neighbourhoods and community spaces.

2 In recent weeks, many countries have been experiencing heatwaves, including China, India, Pakistan and many European countries. Record-breaking temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius have resulted in deaths, heat injuries and damaged physical infrastructure. These heat waves are increasing in frequency and intensity worldwide as a result of climate change, and portends the severe consequences we would face if we do not take significant steps today to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change.

3 Singapore will not be spared the impacts of global warming. 2012-2021 was our warmest decade on record. The Centre for Climate Research Singapore has projected that climate change would lead to average temperatures rising by 1.4 – 4.6 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. Days with peak temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius may appear as early as 2045. This is compounded by the Urban Heat Island effect, or &quot;UHI&quot; effect, where built-up areas are warmer due to heat trapped by buildings and heat generated by activities such as transportation and industry.

4 To prepare for rising temperatures, the Government has adopted a science-based and proactive heat mitigation and adaption strategy, which has three prongs. First, we are deepening our understanding of the science behind how rising temperatures affects Singapore and our residents. Second, we are reviewing efforts to strengthen the community&#39;s resilience to heat. Third, we are designing effective heat mitigation strategies and scaling them up. Let me elaborate on the three prongs.

5 First, understanding the science of how heat affects Singapore and our residents. The Centre for Climate Research Singapore translates global climate projections to understand the localised effects and implications for Singapore. For example, while we do not experience the extreme temperatures arising from high pressure systems that form across large continental masses in the mid-latitude region, we are affected by climate drivers such as El Niño that are likely to be exacerbated by climate change. These projections are being reviewed and will be updated through the Third National Climate Change Study or &quot;V3&quot; that will be released next year. This will enable our heat mitigation action plan and other climate adaptation planning to be informed by the latest IPCC findings and by local and regional warming trends.

6 To understand how heat affects the Singapore population, we are driving research and development to study the factors contributing to urban heat, test different heat mitigation strategies and assess the effects of heat on public health. For example, under the Cooling Singapore 2.0 project, we are working with researchers to develop a digital model to simulate Singapore&#39;s urban climate and predict the effectiveness of various heat mitigation strategies. This enables us to understand how heat affects different parts of Singapore and identify cost-effective heat mitigation strategies.

7 Second, we leverage science to design better policies and guidelines to strengthen community resilience to climate change, especially to account for the fact that some segments of our population, such as the elderly or outdoor workers, may be more vulnerable to rising temperatures. MOH and MSE are studying how heat stress could affect our population. MOH, MOM, and the Workplace Safety and Health Council also work closely together to ensure that guidelines on managing heat stress at workplaces are regularly updated based on the latest scientific evidence, including the V3 study which I earlier mentioned.

8 Third, designing effective heat mitigation strategies, of which there are two broad categories. First, measures to promote cooling in our urban environment, such as through urban planning and building guidelines, infusing more greenery and scaling up the use of cool materials on buildings. SMS Tan will elaborate on these. Second, measures to reduce the heat generated from human activities, such as from our homes, our roads and our industries. These include, for example, efforts under the Singapore Green Plan to electrify our vehicle population and to increase the energy efficiency of industrial, commercial, and residential buildings.

9 Individuals also play an important part. When we use less electricity, we not only reduce the heat emitted from our own electrical appliances, we also reduce the energy that needs to be generated by our power stations, thereby reducing both heat generation and carbon emissions at the system level. Hence, we have been enhancing community resilience to climate change by encouraging businesses and individuals to adopt greater energy efficiency, such as the introduction of the Mandatory Energy Labelling Scheme to help consumers choose more energy-efficient appliances.

10 Although Singapore has so far not faced heat crises on the same scale as other countries, it would not be possible to avoid the rise in temperatures due to global warming. We must continue to engage and co-create solutions with the community to enhance our resilience climate change. We will also roll out policies and measures to cool our neighbourhoods and community spaces, which SMS Tan will now elaborate on.

**Answer by SMS Tan Kiat How:**

11 Let me elaborate on the specific measures we have put in place to cool the environment and address the urban heat island effect in our neighbourhoods, community spaces and industrial estates.

12 Prof Koh Lian Pin asked about the progress and impact of our initiatives to reduce ambient temperatures, such as the introduction of greenery on the top decks of multi-storey carparks, the use of cool paint on HDB blocks, and the planting of trees in our industrial estates. He also asked whether we select specific tree species or vegetation to provide the most optimal cooling benefits. Dr Tan Wu Meng asked if studies have been conducted on ambient interior temperatures of HDB flats across different times of the day and weather conditions, and if we consider temperature trends in designing new HDB projects.

13 As Minister Grace Fu earlier highlighted, the Government adopts a science-based and proactive approach to various aspects of climate adaptation, including the rise in temperatures. BCA requires buildings to be designed to limit heat gain from the exterior, which helps to improve thermal comfort for building occupants. BCA&#39;s Green Mark scheme also recognises buildings that implement Urban Heat Island mitigation measures, such as applying cool paints and providing greenery.In the design of HDB projects, HDB currently deploys various strategies to optimise thermal comfort. For example, our HDB buildings are predominantly oriented in the North-South direction to reduce heat gain. For new towns and estates, HDB conducts environmental modelling to site new flats, design building facades, and refine building layouts to harness existing wind corridors and optimise wind flow.

14 For existing towns, HDB is conducting a pilot study on cool paint which could absorb less heat and reduce the ambient temperature of HDB blocks. Past trials have shown a reduction of ambient temperatures by up to 2 degrees Celsius. The pilot is expected to be completed in 2024. Based on the study outcomes, HDB will consider extending the use of cool paint to more estates. Under the HDB Green Towns Programme, which covers all existing HDB towns, HDB is introducing greenery to the top decks of selected Multi-Storey Carparks (MSCPs) in the form of urban farms, community gardens, or rooftop greenery using the Prefabricated Extensive Green (PEG) Roof Tray System based on the suitability of the carparks. These efforts also aim to reduce ambient temperature.

15 We are also intensifying greenery in our industrial estates, which are amongst the hotter areas in Singapore. To date, nearly 90,000 trees have been planted in our industrial estates under the OneMillionTrees movement, with the help of our partners and the community. These trees are planted to resemble the look and feel of natural forests, to provide pedestrians with shade and respite from the heat. These efforts have helped to beautify and cool industrial estates such as Jurong Island, Seletar Aerospace Park and Tuas Industrial Estate, to create greener and more conducive workplaces. We aim to increase the total number of trees across our industrial estates from 180,000 trees today to about 260,000 trees by 2030.

16 Studies have shown that intensified tree planting in Singapore can reduce mid-day temperatures in the surrounding area by up to 0.9°C. We will continue planting more trees across Singapore under the OneMillionTrees movement, to mitigate the effects of climate change and provide Singaporeans with a more liveable and sustainable environment. We are also working with Institutes of Higher Learning to examine the cooling effects of various tree typologies and planting configurations. We will also deploy an island-wide network of sensors to monitor the cooling effects of our tree planting efforts. The data collected will support microclimatic research in Singapore and help NParks develop better greening strategies to cool Singapore.

17 In summary, the Government takes a broad-based holistic approach that will help all segments of the population cope with rising temperatures. Dealing with the impacts of climate change requires collective action and community resilience. Together, we will ensure that as a nation, we can adapt, adjust and remain resilient in the face of climate change.
